# 195

## Subject: Diligently Practice the Eightfold Noble Path
## ( 八正道法勤修習 )

We must mindfully memorize the 37 Practices to Enlightenment, and constantly review them in our minds. 

* three Fours
  * Fourfold Mindfulness
  * Four Right Efforts
  * Four Bases of Fulfilling Power
* two Fives, the Spiritual Roots and Powers
  * Root of Faith, of Diligence, of Thought, of Samadhi and of Wisdom
  * Power of Faith, of Diligence, of Thought, of Samadhi and of Wisdom
* Seven Factors of Bodhi, (the Seven Branches of Enlightenment)
* Eightfold Noble Path

To practice the infinite teachings of the Path, we need to remember and not forget.  

The way all Buddhas and Bodhisattvas listen to the Dharma and bear it in mind, to really accept and practice them.

The Eightfold Noble Path:
1. Right Views
   * Have the ability to see true principles.
   * Without evil thoughts and biases.
2. Right Thinking
   * Have a mind free of deviant thoughts.
3. Right Speech
   * Do not speak unreal or false things.
   * 4 types of speech karma: 
     * Harsh speech
     * Gossip
     * Lies 
     * Flattery
4. Right Action (behavior and conduct)
   * Do all good deeds that are beneficial.
5. Right Livelihood
   * Take on a vocation on the Right Path.
6. Right Diligence
   * Cultivate all spiritual practices without ceasing.
7. Right Mindfulness
   * Focus on recalling the virtuous Dharma.
   * To have our minds and actions inseparable from the Dharma.
8. Right Samadhi
   * Wholeheartedly dwell on the truth of the Right Path.
   * Focus without scatter

We must strive to **discern the Dharma with the Factors of Bodhi, know what is true or false with wisdom and clear understanding, become joyous through practicing Right Dharma. The mind remains in one state and attains peace.**


    “[He] exhaustively practiced all Buddhas’ infinite teachings of the Path, forge ahead with courage and vigor. Thus, His name is widely known. Forging ahead with courage and vigor describes the courageousness of Bodhisattvas. They diligently practice all Dharma and transform sentient beings without retreating.”
        [Lotus Sutra]

    「盡行諸佛，無量道法，勇猛精進，名稱普聞。」
        《法華經方便品第二》

Those whose names are widely known are recognized by all as role models. They help people accumulate merits and bring to fruition profound teachings that have never been known before. They themselves realize the inconceivable.

## 三十七助道法
* 三四觀身勤如意
  * 四念處
    * 觀身不淨
    * 觀受是苦
    * 觀心無常
    * 觀法無我
  * 四正勤
    * 已生惡令速斷
    * 未生惡令不生
    * 已生善令增長
    * 未生善令速生
  * 四如意足
    * 精進如意足
    * 欲如意足
    * 念如意足
    * 思惟如意足
* 二五根力念定慧
    * 信、精進、念、定、慧
* 七八道法正思惟
    * 擇法、精進、喜、除、捨、定、念 [__覺分__]
    * [__正__] 見、思惟、語、業、命、精進、念、定
* 道法謹記應受持

# 196
## Wondrous Dharma Awakens Understanding
## (妙法其深 隨機契理)

    “He has realized profound Dharma that has never been known before, and teaches according to what is appropriate.” “Yet the direction of His mind is hard to understand.”
        [Lotus Sutra]

    「成就甚深 未曾有法，隨宜所說，意趣難解。」
        《法華經方便品第二》

[Buddha] teaches according to what is appropriate, but their thinking is hard to understand. They transform sentient beings with what is appropriate and resonant with their capabilities.  

    “Sariputra, from the time I attained Buddhahood, I have, by means of various causes and conditions and various analogies, [taught sentient beings].”
         [Lotus Sutra]
    「舍利弗，吾從成佛已來，種種因緣，種種譬喻。」
        《法華經方便品第二》

In the Buddha’s noble teachings, from the simple to profound, everything He says is related to the truths of the law of karma.

Various analogies：With things that were known, [He] revealed things that were not yet known.

# 197
## Skillful Means of the True Path (方便權智 乘如實道)

All Buddhas take the True Path to this world. They speak true words to deduce true principles through matters. What we awaken to are the Tathagata’s knowledge, views.

    He “extensively proclaims teachings verbally with countless skillful means to guide sentient beings,” so they can “transcend all attachments”.
         [Lotus Sutra]
    廣演言教
    無數方便
    引導眾生
    令離諸著
        《法華經方便品第二》

prajna is the wisdom of True Suchness. Skillful means are the wisdom to understand the provisional path. The provisional path is a means of benefiting others.
Based on this, Great and Small Vehicle teachings of the Buddha are generally referred to as skillful means.

「權巧方便」
Skillful means are methods that are easily applied. Their ease of use resonates with the capabilities of all sentient beings. Skillful means are also proper principles that are taught with clever words.

# 198
## Subject: Guide Sentient Beings to Transcend Attachments (引導眾生離諸著)

“The Tathagata compassionately teaches by freely discussing teachings of the Path. Using various causes, conditions and analogies, He extensively proclaims teachings.”

[They] extensively proclaim teachings. With countless skillful means, They guide living beings, enabling them to transcend all attachments.

All attachments refer to clinging.“Ordinary people cling to recognition, wealth and living necessities.”“They seek physical comfort and cling to desires and sensory pleasures.”

心理四相:生、住、異、滅  
Our minds go through four states of existence: arising, abiding, changing and ceasing.

Two Vehicle [Practitioners] cling to Nirvana. Bodhisattvas exercise compassion and wisdom and are impartial toward enemies and loved ones. They extensively gather all causes to realize the fruit of Bodhi and head toward attaining Buddhahood. [Clinging to Nirvana] is part of “all attachments.”

*  The Buddha is very compassionate， He comes to this world to teach sentient beings. They are stubborn and difficult to train because of their ignorance.

*  The Buddha uses various methods to guide and teach us, various causes and conditions and various analogies, to help us recognize suffering and know where the causes of suffering come from. 

* The Buddha is very meticulous and mindful; and with great patience, using countless skillful means.
* Eg of attachments: wealth, love, lust, recognition, material goods.
* We must cultivate our minds and refine our character; engage in spiritual practices, in order to eliminate our attachments.

*  Form great aspirations and vows, to want to good deeds. To reach a state where thoughts will not arise nor cease in our minds.

* Give unconditionally and with only gratitude in our minds.

# 199
## Subject: Knowledge and Views of the Paramitas (知見波羅蜜)

    “Why is this?”
    “The Tathagata has already perfected skillful means and knowledge and views of the Paramitas.”
         [Lotus Sutra]
    所以者何
    如來方便
    知見波羅蜜
    皆已具足
        《法華經方便品第二》

「知見」  
Realizations from mind-consciousness are called “knowledge”.
Realizations from eye-consciousness and deductions are called “views”.
Complete realization is “knowledge and views.” 

「知見波羅蜜」  
Knowledge and views of the Paramitas: Realizing a view that understands all things and whether they are proper or deviant
Through the mind-consciousness, one attains knowledge and views of all teachings that help us cross to the others shore.

「波羅蜜」  
Paramita: Crossing to the opposite shore.  
Practitioners ride the boat of great practices to this shore of cyclic existence, suffering and anguish to the opposite shore of Nirvana, peace and joy. That is crossing to the opposite shore.

# 200
## Subject: The Tathagata’s Wisdom Is Vast and Profound(如來知見 廣大深遠)

    “Sariputra, the knowledge and views of the Tathagata are vast, great, profound and far-reaching, limitless and unhindered.”
         [Lotus Sutra]
    舍利弗
    如來知見
    廣大深遠
    無量無礙
        《法華經 方便品第二》

Here “vast and great” means “The Tathagata’s Samadhi is broadly encompassing. It includes all things The world of sentient beings is inseparable from the mind. Thus it is called vast and great”.

“the Buddha’s wisdom is serene and profound."

When he speaks, his teaching reaches both near and far, and through the Three Periods: past, present and future.

"This is from realizing the extremely profound, serene and far-reaching One Vehicle.”

In summary, we must always have this mindset. By being mindful, our minds can draw near to the Buddha’s mind. We are not limited by time and space. 

We must be mindful and not be lax, and  share this responsibility of all Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, the great work of transforming sentient beings in the Saha World of endurance.

# 201 
## Subject: The Four Infinite Minds (四無量心)

Teachings of the Path [must] enter our hearts.  
We must listen, contemplate and practice.

    四無量心：
    慈無量心
    悲無量心
    喜無量心
    捨無量心
    The Four Infinite Minds : 
    infinite loving-kindness 
    infinite compassion 
    infinite joy  
    infinite equanimity.

Infinite loving-kindness.Loving-kindness is a mindset of great love, the loving thoughts of a Bodhisattva for all sentient beings.  
They constantly do good and joyous deeds to accommodate others’ needs and benefit them.

“Infinite compassion: The Bodhisattvas have sympathy for all sentient beings who face various kind of suffering. Constantly retaining this compassion, they save and relieve those beings enabling them to attain liberation.”

“infinite joy. Bodhisattvas are glad when sentient beings can transcend suffering and attain joy. They feel infinite delight.”

Infinite equanimity: Bodhisattvas wish for all sentient beings to attain a state of not giving rise to dislikes or cravings, to let go of anger and hate, to be free of resentments and worries.

「無礙」  
Unobstructed: They are at ease, with unhindered understanding. They are in harmony, at ease and one with all matters. This is like lamp light merging, without mutual obstruction.

# 202 
## Subject: With Solid Faith, Fear Nothing(信心堅固 施無畏)

    “powerful and fearless, with dhyana, liberation and Samadhi”.
        [Lotus Sutra]
    「力無所畏
    、禪定、解脫、三昧」
        《法華經方便品第二》

Ten Powers:
1.knowledge of right and wrong in all conditions.
2.Knowledge of karma
3.Knowledge of Samadhi
4.Knowledge of [relative] capabilities
5.Knowledge of desires
6.knowledge of the nature of each individual
7.knowledge of the consequences of all paths
8.knowledge of past lives
9.knowledge of he heavenly eye
10.knowledge of elimination of Leaks

“the Buddha is fearless in expounding the path of ending suffering”.“Among the assembly, the Buddha taught precepts, Samadhi and wisdom and other noble paths and did so fearlessly.”

“The Fourfold Fearlessness:”
Fearlessness of all-encompassing wisdom.
Fearlessness of ending Leaks.
Fearlessness of explaining the hindrances of spiritual cultivation.
Fearlessness of explaining the paths of ending suffering.

Second is “fearlessness of ending Leaks”. “The Buddha taught them to eliminate all afflictions and He did so fearlessly.” 

the third is “fearlessness of explaining hindrances of spiritual cultivation.” Fearlessness of explaining hindrances of spiritual cultivation: Among the assembly, the Buddha taught how to overcome delusions and other hindrances, and He did so fearlessly.

The fourth one is “fearlessness of explaining the paths of ending suffering.” Similarly, this explains precepts, Samadhi and wisdom and helps us recognize suffering.

Dhyana:  dhyana is a way of thinking. With tranquility, the mind remains still, in a meditative state. This is called dhyana.
What about liberation? Ordinary people are trapped by cyclic existence, so they cannot attain liberation. But Buddhas and Bodhisattvas have already attained liberation and will never experience cyclic existence again.

# 203
## Diligently Transform Sentient Beings (學佛精進度眾生)
with His “clever, skillful and non-discriminating wisdom, He taught countless sentient beings according to their capabilities.”

“Deeply enter the boundless Dharma and awaken to the Dharma that has never been attained.”
深入無際
成就一切
未曾有法
《法華經方便品第二》

“Everyone in the assembly attained what they had never had before”.They rejoiced and pressed their palms together. -[Lotus Sutra]
是諸大眾
得未曾有
歡喜合掌
《法華經序品第一》

    “Sariputra, the Tathagata can make various distinctions, tactfully giving all teachings. His speech is gentle and delights the hearts of multitudes.”
        [Lotus Sutra]
    舍利弗
    如來能種種分別
    巧說諸法
    言辭柔軟
    悅可眾心
    《法華經方便品第二》
    
“The Eight Tones: beautiful tone, soft tone, harmonious tone, respectful and wise tone, non-effeminate tone, unerring tone, deep and far-reaching tone and inexhaustible tone.”

“Tathagata: It is one of the ten epithets of all Buddhas. [This epithet] refers to True Suchness. One the path of True Suchness, He goes from causes to fruition and attains perfect enlightenment.”

“with a mind of infinite great compassion, the Buddha spoke in tactful tones that were agreeable to sentient beings.This enabled those who heard it to be joyful and to let go of their stubbornness.”

# 204
## Teach Ultimate Reality with Great Compassion(大悲施教 諸法實相)

“Buddhas give teachings out of great compassion. They are known and recognized by all as models. They have achieved all virtuous merits and profound, never-before-experienced Dharma.”

    “Sparitputra, essentially speaking, all Buddhas have fully achieved the unlimited, boundless, never-before-experienced Dharma.”
    “Stop, Sariputra, there is no need to speak further. Why is this?”
    “The Dharma that the Buddha attained was most extraordinary and difficult to understand. Only Buddhas can thoroughly realize the ultimate reality of all things.”
      [Lotus Sutra]
    舍利弗
    取要言之
    無量無邊未曾有法
    佛悉成就
    止
    舍利弗
    不須復說
    所以者何
    佛所成就
    第一希有難解之法
    唯佛與佛
    乃能究竟諸法實相
    《法華經方便品第二》

“Extraordinary: [He taught] extraordinary ad incredible things, the teachings of the Great Vehicle Path and world and world-transcending Dharma. Through this, He revealed the extraordinary Dharma of the Three Vehicles.”

# 205
## Understand the Ultimate Reality of All Things(究竟諸法實相)

“Teachings of the ultimate reality of the One Vehicle are realized by all Buddhas. So, They return to people in the Saha World to skillful and carefully guide and instill the Dharma into their hearts. With great patience, they never abandon sentient beings. They connect them to the True Dharma of the One Vehicle.”

The Dharma that the Buddha attained was most extraordinary and difficult to understand.
Only Buddhas can thoroughly realize the ultimate reality of all things.

    “The wisdom of all Buddhas is extremely profound and unlimited. This Wisdom-door is difficult to understand and enter.”
    [Lotus Sutra]
    諸佛智慧
    甚深無量
    其智慧門
    難解難入
    《法華經方便品第二》

“The ultimate reality of all things is also called Nirvana-illumination. Nirvana means tranquil and still. Illumination shows something with clarity. This reveals the virtue of the ultimate reality of the Middle Way, which are principles of innate enlightenment.”

Ultimate reality means to transcend the original illusory and false appearances. And such ultimate reality of all things is all-encompassing wisdom.

